When
he was reading, was it okay for his daughter to
interrupt him? Sure.
He never did cause me any kind of problems, any kind
of discipline. It was my mother. Now, what were
your mother's rules for you? Well, just normal,
normal behavior.
But my father never did. What did she do for
relaxation? Did she have some clubs? Yeah, she
bombed some clubs. What were they? Well, they were
ladies' social clubs, mainly. Was it named the
social club then? No, let's see. I've got to get my
schools connected. Because the ones I can
remember now are mostly OU. See, that's been since
1925 that she's been, that she was down in OU, so I
don't remember the ones way back. Did she, did she
have a group of women that came every, did they meet
weekly or monthly? Well, if she belonged to one, it
would be just monthly or something like that, I
suppose. I don't really know about that. Did you
all go to church off campus? Mm-hmm. Where? We
always went to church. And they supported both
churches. I said one was a Methodist and one was a
Baptist. And we'd go to first one church and then
the other church. And they, as I said, supported
both of them. And I never did understand why they
didn't combine them. Then did they decide which
church you would attend? Well, I just went with
them. You went to both? I just went with them.
Wherever they went, I went. So I'm asking you,
about to ask a leading question. So did you grow up
and become a Baptist or a Methodist? I came up and
joined my... The Sunday that I got back from my
honeymoon, I went down and joined my husband's
church, First Christian Church. First
Christian, the disciples. Yeah. Did you see the
church up here, the... One looks like a beehive.
Well, that's our first Christian church. Oh,
okay. And you should have heard my husband after he
saw those plans. The minister called him and asked
him to come by and look at the plans when he came
home. He said, you wouldn't believe what I've just
seen. Oh, he was so put out and so mad about this.
Beehive, as he called it. But it's really a very
fine plant. And they've got a theater room, a
building. And it's fine. In your days at A&M, was
there an organized Baptist church And Methodist
Church next to the campus? No, but I noticed in this
annual,
in the organizations, it would be the Baptist
group and the Methodist group of students. They
were organized on the campus, and I had forgotten
about that. Let's see, back to student life. Where
did the Aggie men get those beautiful boots in
those days? I don't know, but sure I had them. They
kept them polished. Later there would be a couple
of boot makers just across the north side of the
campus. They were not there then? I don't know.
Were Aggie rings kind of sacred at that time? Yeah,
I guess they were. I don't know about that.
Let's see. Do you remember your dad ever
complaining about the board of directors? Did the
board of directors try to sometimes interfere too
much? I don't remember whether they did or not.
He's not a politician in any sense of the word. And
when he got up here, he had some legislative
problems getting his library building and some
other things. But I don't remember. And ask in
there about anybody that I remember. And anybody I
remember is mostly just by name now because it's
been too long. I can't remember. And I know that one
of the members of the board of directors when we
were down there was Mr. F.M. Law. Does that name
mean anything? Yes, ma'am. Law Hall is a cherished
building on the campus. How did... How did your
father and Mr. Lowell become acquainted? Do you
remember? Well, I guess it was because he was, I
don't know whether he was president of the board.
At one time he was. Well, that's what I was
thinking, but I was just assuming that because his
name comes to my mind more than any of the rest of
them. Do you remember any of the governors during
that period? What about Governor Ferguson? Sure.
I just remember Ma Ferguson. I was wondering, did
you meet Ma? I don't remember that I ever did meet
her. Because I would like to know more about her.
She's apparently a very distinctive lady. Did
your dad spend much time going to and from Austin? I
don't remember about that either. Probably had to
go over there some. But do you ever... I'll run into
the name Ike Ashburn. Yes, ma'am. Well, he was a
real loved person on the campus in those years, and
very popular. He was a commandant of the Corps in
this book right here. And it had a very
complimentary letter from from somebody about
the way the student body had been trained.
Do you describe Colonel Ashburn? He was a big man,
great big man, fine looking man. Pleasant? Very
pleasant.
He married my mother's cousin from Navasota, Bula
Cook.
They had a son, Ike Junior. And then when they had a
child later, she and the baby died during
childbirth. So that was a blow to everybody that
knew Ike Ashburn. Did Mr. Cashin get there before
you all left to direct the YMCA? I don't believe so.
DX Bible. Oh, my father brought him down. How did
they link up? Do you know? I don't know, but he was a
very favorite. The D.X. Bible was just a... What
made him their favorite? I don't know. Because he
was at Mississippi College before coming to A&M.
Yeah. And then he brought with him a young man named
Anderson. I don't remember him. who would be
nicknamed Andy. And he would become the great,
great, great track coach and also the Commandant
of the Corps. Do you remember a football player
named Hiney Weir? The name, you know, that's a very
familiar name. Do you remember anything more? No.
I can't remember. The reason I'm is because he is
the football player who has the knee injury in the
Texas game before they go to Dallas to play a
postseason game in the Cotton Classic. Oh, yeah.
And Coach Bible turns to young Ashburn, a young
Anderson, and says, remember four years ago when
we were at Mississippi College, we were playing
Mississippi State, and for the first time in
history we were ahead of them But a bunch of our guys
got hurt, and we didn't have enough players to have
11 men on the field all the time. So you go up there in
the bleachers and get King Gill, who is Hiney
Weir's substitute, and he's here as a spectator,
tell him to go put his uniform on because if we need
him, We'll want him to play today. And that's where
the 12th man legend got started. And that's why I
was wondering if you knew, remembered Honey Weir.
I certainly remember the name. Coach Bible,
describe him as you recall him. Well, a very fine
personality. Everybody liked him, so far as I
know. I think he was very popular and a wonderful
coach and everything. I don't know of anything
other than good things I could say about him. Did
athletes go to class then? I
suppose so.
Well, did students all go to class then? Do you
remember students playing around when classes
were in session? No. I probably didn't know much
about that. When you were in class, did students go
to sleep much in class?
I don't recall that they did. Probably did.
Well, let's see, you said no fires and tornadoes
and train wrecks. We have had tornadoes, but we've
been fortunate right here. We had one in Nichols
Hills just this spring. And I remember reading
about that one. Yeah, but the big one, you know, was
just in May. That's when we had our big to tore down
everybody's houses in that very big area. Compare
being a student at A&M to being a student at the
University of Texas. It was more fun being a
student at A&M, I can say. Describe what made it
more fun. Well, I was just so much more gung-ho
about A&M than I was Texas University. And that is a
shame to say, because I'm really proud of my degree
from Texas University.
But it was just the nature of things for me to feel
like I did about A&M.
The conduct of the two student bodies, was there
any difference?
Well, it was totally different, not having any
military, but the ones I was associated with were
just very normal, very nice people. Were Aggies
more respectful to young ladies than Longhorns
were? I don't know that they were. I had some
things. I don't know whether you care about it.
Did you show him the picture? Well, when you were
talking about World War I, I just handed it to him.
Yes, ma'am. Oh, did you see this? Yes, ma'am. Oh,
that's a special card. Special card. Your family
had a telephone always when you all... Mm-hmm. My
phone number was 65. 65. Mm-hmm. Where was the
telegraph office? Oh, I don't know about that. Was
there even one at College Station? Oh, I imagine. I
don't know. Do you remember where the students
could have used a telephone? Because there
wouldn't have been one in each room. No, no. I don't
have any idea about that. Let's see, typewriter.
Was a typewriter available to you at home? I never
did learn to write on one. I never yet learned to
write on one. You said your father called you when
he was called to take the job at OU. How did he and the
University of Oklahoma become linked? Do you
know? No, I don't know that. The Board of Regents, I
guess, just... Because as far as I know, his work at
A&M was very, very, very positive, and everybody
was deeply proud to have him. Well, I think it was,
you know, it was kind of a hard decision. Anytime
you're going to make a change like that. But he...
Had many good years at OU, too. Oh, yes. Oh, yes.
Let's see. Another name of a person. Do you
remember a man who had been an A&M director, later
they'd call regent, from Houston named E.H.
Cushing? Mm-hmm. That name's familiar, Cushing.
Do you remember anything? But I don't know
anything about him. Well, when the old main
building burned and the first dining hall
burned... A&M was bankrupt, and he wrote a check, a
personal check, to keep the institution going
until the legislature could meet in regular
session and appropriate money. And a previous A&M
president named David Franklin Houston, or
Houston, it's sometimes pronounced both ways,
who later was also the UT president and who later
was in President Wilson's cabinet, he tried to
persuade the legislature to close A&M down and
move everything to Austin and merge it into the
University of Texas. And Mr. Cushing saved A&M.
Let's see, was there a bonfire at A&M in those days?
Oh, sure. And you know, every year to this day, on
certain night, my son from Enid calls me Mom,
tonight is the night of the bonfire, and it's going
to be on television, and I turn it on and watch it
every time. Where was the bonfire held in those
days? I don't know what part of the campus it was on,
but it was a big thing, and afterwards the whole
student body came over to our house and got around
the front porch. What did they put in the bonfire?
everything, I guess, boxes, and now, goodness, I
don't know what they do. Now it's logs only. Is that
right? But then, and what did, in those days, did
they have anything they put on top of it? Not that I
remember. Because a few years later, they would
borrow someone's privy,
paint it orange, and put it up there, and then...
they would raise the money to go to the family from
which the privy had been stolen and pay for a new
outhouse. That's the old lag of spirit.
There you go. There you go. Let's see. For you as a
student, a full-time student, did you feel any
pressure, personal pressure to... be sure that
you made your grades, that you behaved in a special
way? No. You didn't? No. I was not aware of it. Do you
remember any students getting into trouble? If
so, what kind of punishment did they get from A&M
then? If it was bad enough, they got expelled, but I
don't know. Some kind of military thing, I
suppose. Now, as I looked at the photographs of
your father, it looked like that quite often he had
on a white suit. Did he sometimes wear? Oh, in the
summer, I don't remember having a white suit much.
Back in those days, maybe he did. I don't remember.
Oh, where was his office? What building? I assumed
it was in the administration building. And did you
sometimes go over there? Not much that I remember.
Did he have a secretary that was a special staff
member for a long time? I'm the only one I can think
of that was one that owe you for all those years. I
don't, I just don't, oh let's see, I believe his
name was Bailey. Who? S.G. Bailey. S.G. Bailey.
That name kind of comes to me. I've heard of that
name. Well, I told the children, and this is maybe
getting off that subject, but I told the children
that I was going to tell you about how I caught my
husband. Sure. Yes. Sure. Well, we had gotten to
Norman. I had to cross over to Norman just a little
bit. And my husband, I guess Daddy was... First
year law. Did I have two years of law school after
that? 1925, he would have been probably a second
year law student. I thought he was president of the
student council. Well, he was. He was. But he, I
think, I was thinking maybe two years anyway, he
had gotten his same degree in 25 that I had. but and
he was in first year of law but he was also president
of the student body so he worked closely with my
father you know on student affairs and things and
he just thought that since they kind of had a liking
for each other they admired each other that it
would be nice if he would make a date with his
daughter, just pure courtesy date, not because he
wanted to. So he called and asked me to go to a
baseball game with him. And I said I was delighted
to go with him. And so we went to the game and enjoyed
the game. And when the game was over, he looked
around at me He said, you are the first girl I've
ever taken to a sporting event that would stay
during the whole game. And I said, at A&M, we don't
do that. We stay at the whole till the game is over.
And he was so impressed with that, I said, that's
how I caught my husband. So you're saying that it
was the Aggie spirit? It was the Aggie spirit that
kept me at that ball
game. All right, that reminds me to ask, describe
going to an A&M football game. Oh, that was always a
great event. We had so many good football teams.
Was it called Kyle Field then? Uh-huh, yeah. When
they built that stadium it was Kyle Field. What did
you and your friends do at a football game? Just
what everybody else did. Just yell and of course
the students all kind of stayed together. Did you
stand up the whole game? We didn't do that then.
That's what they do now, but they didn't do that
back in those days. Did the Aggies kiss their dates
after a touchdown? Probably. I don't remember
that. Because that's a strong tradition now. That
is, yeah. And was there a formal march-in
ceremony? Well, at the half, they always had the
whole student body come down and make a big T right
down the middle of it. Did you, as a coed, did you go
down with them ever? No, no. Only? No girls. No
girls? No girls down there. And you know, I've been
real excited about our band. It's now up to 405
members. Well, it is a wonderful man. It really is.
And as I said, the children have always kind of
teased me about the way I make on, so about A&M. And
one of the games that they had down at OU, I started
to say this about my son and Enid Lee Jr., was in the
press box. And at the half, of course they bring in
all these other sports now, but at the football
game, our band, the A&M band, was there and
performed down the, you know, that precision
marching, and the music was, you know, how it is.
And he called me from the press box. And he said, I
will have to admit that that is the finest band I
think I have ever seen or something like that. He
said that A&M band is spectacular. And he, from the
press box, called me to tell him. So I've been very
proud of that because it is, I just think, a superb
band. Did you go to basketball and baseball games?
Oh, yeah. And where were the baseballs? Do you
remember where they were played? It's too far back
for me to remember that. I never have been as much of
a baseball fan as I have basketball and football,
mainly football. But I always went to them when we
were down there. Was silver taps a tradition then?
When a student died, a special ceremony to to
commemorate that student's death. Silver taps, I
don't recall that. Today, just west of the
academic building, is the statue of Lawrence
Sullivan Ross. Sol Ross, yeah. And then the
buglers from the band come out on the second floor
of the building, and the students gather in
silence, all the student body around that, and
there is a ceremony, and then they play taps, and
you are then to go back to your room in total silence
and not supposed to turn on your lights unless you
really have to study, and if so, close the blinds
and close your door to silently try to remember
your friendship for that student that is gone.
Well, for goodness sakes, isn't that
interesting? Let's see, celebrity visitors. Do
you remember any famous people coming to visit?
Oh, I'm sure there were plenty of them, but I don't,
I just can't remember those. I don't think, I don't
know of President Woodrow Wilson coming or
McKendree. I don't believe so, and I don't
remember that. Let me see, I was going to... Oh, Sol
Ross, when you said Sol Ross, in the old campus that
I'm, that's all that I knew about, and had a statue
of him. Yes, ma'am. Is that statue still there? Oh,
yes. Still there? Every freshman is supposed to
polish it at least once. Well, but when I was down
there, if it rained, some freshman had to hold an
umbrella over his head the
whole time. I mean, you said, Saul Ross, that's the
first thing I ever think of.
That's great. Let's see. How much did things cost?
Do you remember the prices of things? A dress? Not
like it does now, but I don't know. What about that
haircut that you got in Houston? Do you remember
what your mother paid that beautician? No. I just
know she turned down the $25.
While you were living in College Station, did you
and your family make any vacation trips that you
recall? But most of the time, our vacation was
going to either Chicago to the University of
Chicago. My father was taking classes to get a
degree there. And then we went for several summers
to New York with him while he was going to Columbia.
So those were our vacation trips like that. Now,
did he get a degree while he was at A&M? Did he
complete? A degree at one of those schools? No,
he'd gotten his degree at Baylor. And then the next
was, I guess it was, what was his law degree at the
University of Chicago? He got one graduate degree
at the University of Chicago and one at Columbia,
but I don't know which one was which. Ph.D. was from
Columbia, I think. Ph.D. was from Columbia. In
what specialty? Sociology, wasn't it? Well, that
was his field, but. I'm not sure that I ever saw
that. And he was chosen. I've got a little medal
upstairs. He was chosen outstanding graduate one
year.
If I could chat with your father today, what do you
think he would remember most fondly about A&M? But
I think he would have a lot of the same spirit
himself, because I think they really enjoyed the
years down there. Was it easy to move away, for you,
to move from College Station? Well, fortunately
it was in the summertime. And I graduated that
spring, and then we came right up to Norman. And did
you meet, and you met that young man the next
spring, that special? That was, well, that was
just, that fall I met him. Oh, that fall, oh. Yeah.
That's very good, good timing for him.
Let's see, we're getting near the completion.
What effects did? those years at College Station,
what effects did those have on your life and the
kind of person you have become?
They had a lot of effects on my life because I look
back on them as still some of the best years. And
I've had a wonderful life from beginning to end.
I've just never known anybody so fortunate.
I was trying to think of some of the things that I...
Did it affect your set of values, your attitudes
about people? No, I think I've stayed about the
same. Children might have an answer to that. Let's
see. All right. Next to the last question. Let's
make believe that someone gives you a million
dollar check with only one requirement you must
give it to texas a m but you can decide what they are
to do with it what would you tell if you could give a m
a million dollars what would what would you want
them to do with it send the girls home
send the girls home yeah it's not it's not quite
it's not the same now that it But now that wouldn't
cost any money, though. What would? Oh, to spend
money on it. Well, just make a bigger and better
college.
Then the last question. What are your feelings
about Texas A&M today? Same they've always been. I
just loved at Texas A&M. It was a real special time
for me. And there was anything I accomplished or
did that would help you in what you're doing.